>> Kadi Kraman: Next up, we're going
to install a navigation library.
So React Native doesn't come
with navigation by default, so
we need to choose one, and we're going
to use Expo Router for navigation.
Expo Router is a file system-based
navigation library, and
it's built on top of React navigation.
So if you're familiar with Next.js then,
or libraries like that.
And you probably already understand
what file system based routing is.
But basically it means that
your file system defines
the screens that exist in your app.
Is that the industry standard
as Expo Router or are there
other routers that have generally
been used in production applications?
So there's three navigation libraries for
React Native.
This React navigation.
There's React Native navigation,
which I think is less popular these days.
And then there's Expo Router,
which is built on top of React navigation.
So the main two ones
that are used right now,
as far as I'm aware are Expo Router and
then React navigation.
React navigation, if you don't
want file system based routing,
but Expo Router is the future,
in my biased opinion [LAUGH].
So I've linked to the getting
started docs here, and
I've also copied the steps
that we need to do.
So first we install a bunch of libraries.
So let's install these.
So we'll need Expo Router,
this React Native safe area context.
So this is to have the safe
area on your screen.
So this is handled automatically
by the navigation library.
So on iOS when you have the bottom and top
of your screen where you can't actually
put content because you have your
status bar and your little notch, so
this protects against that so you're only
putting content in the visible area.
And distracting the screens,
there's Expo linking, so
this is because one of the good things,
like amazing things actually,
about React Navigation is that you
get deep linking basically for free.
It's a side effect, it's a benefit
of doing file system based routing.
You don't need to configure the routes
because they are implicit from the file
system, so deep linking for
the first time in React Native becomes,
I don't wanna say easy, but
I'm kinda wanna say easy.
And we also have expo constants and
an expo status bar.
Now we need to set up
the entry point of our app.
So if you go to the package, JSON.
So, if you have any JavaScript
project that has a package JSON,
it has this main field here.
And the main is the main entry point for
this application, for this library,
for this whatever.
And by default, this is actually
a link to a file in your node modules.
So if you go to Expo and
then app entry cde Expo and
then app entry,
just to see what this does.
And basically all it does is
it requires your main file, so
your app.tsx, and then it calls
register root component with it.
So if you used React Native CLI,
if you use React Native to commute
to cli to create a project.
You've probably seen this, and
it was in this index.js file, and
then the main would point to index.js.
And it's just a convenience that
is just like abstracted the way so
you don't have to have your index file.
It is only to know that this exists
because there are some React Native
libraries that require you to do something
before calling register root component.
In which case you could copy this
content into an index file and
then change your main entry point to your
local file and then do additional things.
This is just an FYI of what's
happening behind the scenes, and
we need to change this into,
I didn't actually copy this.
We need to change this into expo
router/entry, which is this, and
in this entry point we go to our node
modules and look for expo router,
>> Kadi Kraman: Expo router, and entry.
So, you can see that this actually
does some additional things.
So the root of our app will
change to be our app folder.
And this does some additional things
to pass the initial screen for us.
But in the end,
it also calls the render root component.
So again, if for
some reason you needed to change this,
you could move this into an index
file in your application, but for
now it is handy to have
this abstracted away.
>> Kadi Kraman: Next, we'll need to update
our project config to provide a scheme.
So if we open our app JSON.
So this is a config file for
your app and we'll add a scheme field,
and a scheme is basically,
the reason this is required is because,
as I mentioned, deep linking is set
up by default with expo router.
And deep linking is basically linking
into your app to a specific screen.
And the way deep linking works on mobile
applications is basically that your mobile
app registers to listen to
let's say a particular keyword.
So when a link comes in, so there will be
like plantly:// then your phone will go,
okay, as anyone want to handle this link.
And if your application has registered to
handle this scheme, then it will say yes,
can you give it to me, and basically
that's why we need to handle this.
So this can be anything you would want
to make this probably like relevant to
your app.
So you want to make this
as unique as possible but
it is not possible like multiple apps can
have can be registered to the same scheme.
So for example if you open,
you see it more on Android actually.
So on Android, if you open something
that should open a web browser and
you have multiple web browsers installed,
you might have seen this pop up that says,
do you want to open this with this,
this or this?
And then that's because it's
multiple apps are registered to
use the same scheme,
so you need to choose.
And on iOS, this is unfortunately
handled kind of mysteriously in
the background where iOS just
chooses an app for you to open.
So this step is optional, and
we're not going to be focusing
on web in this workshop, but
I wanted to show you that reconning
into web is actually set up by default.
So you can run everything that
we're building on the web.
So you do wanna try this,
let's install these libraries.
So we want React Native to web and
react on, and also in our app JSON,
we want to make sure that the bundler
is set through set to metro.
So if we, open our app JSON,
and then under web,
make sure that we're using metro.
>> Kadi Kraman: Lovely,
and now we removed, so
we changed our main entry point.
So we now also need to change where
our app components are rendered.
So let's create a new folder called app.
So this is non-negotiable.
If you're using Expo Router,
the root of your app is the app folder.
And in particular, let's move this app.TSX
into our app folder and
rename it index.tsx.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
the root, the main screen,
the first screen that your app
opens if you're using Expo Router,
is the route`s label index
file in your app folder.
So if you don't like using index files,
you can actually get around
without using most of them.
The only one that you absolutely
need is this root index file.
Let's npx expo start again.
>> Kadi Kraman: Lovely, okay, so
if you've done everything correctly,
everything should look exactly the same.
And this is great.
And the reason it's looking
exactly the same is that
we've not added a layout file.
So if we add a layout file,
we can actually get a little header.
So let's do an _layout.tsx.
And let's import stack.
This is from Expo router.
So all the screens, so
there's two kinds of things that
you can have in your app folder.
You can have screen files and
layout files.
And for each of them,
you always have to use default exports.
So I'm going to use
export default function.
This can be a constant
function if you like, and
you can name it whatever you like because
it's the default, I will name it layout.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
here we're going to return a stack.
And inside the stack we're
gonna define our screen.
So let's do stack.screen.
And the name will be the filename,
so the index.
So if I save that, you can see that
I get a nice little header here.
And by default, the name on
the header will be the filename.
But we can customise it
using this options prop.
And with options title,
we can set it to whatever we
want in this case let's do home.
All right, so this is on iOS, and
you just also open this on Android.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go,
we got the same thing on android.
You notice that on android, the header
bar looks slightly different, so
we got a slightly different elevation
here and also the text is floated left.
And that is not a bug or
a mistake, that is on purpose.
So the navigation library uses
platform specific defaults.
So you can change these defaults and
you can make your apps look the same, but
by default it will use things that
are more appropriate for the platform.
And lastly, we set up all our web stuff.
So in your terminal, if you type w,
it should open a web browser.
And this is the app that you are building,
the same thing,
using interactive web
running in a web browser.